## English with Katty (2024-06-24)

### What did you get up to?
- What did you **get up to** last weekend?
- I didn't **get up to** much.
- What will you **get up to**?

### What is a phrasal verb?

A phrasal verb is made of two parts. The first part is the root of the verb. And the second part is a particle. Sometimes we have one particle, sometimes we have two particles.

- **VERB + P1 (+P2)**

When we work with phrasal verbs the meaning of the verb changes.

For example: **get up to** means **do**.

### Expressions with ***mind***
1. deciding/opinions
   - speak your mind
   - make up your mind
   - change your mind
2. be careful!
   - mind your head
3. (not) a problem
   - I don't mind
   - Never mind
4. thoughts
   - something on your mind
5. minded
   - open-minded
   - absent-minded
6. forgetting/remembering
   - my mind went blank
7. spoken phrases
   - mind your own business
8. requests
   - would you mind + -ing?

- The expressions below are using ***mind*** as a verb:
  
***Would you mind / Mind your head / Mind your own business / I don't mind***

- The expressions below are using ***mind*** as an adjective:
  
***open-minded / absent-minded***

- The expressions below are using ***mind*** as a noum:
  
***speak your mind / make up your mind / change your mind / my mind went blank / something on your mind***

### Vocabulary
- I am all good! 
- River tubing **>>** Bóia cross
- I find that really interesting! **>>** Its strange - for me, to use this expression. Usually I would say ***I think this is very interesting***. 
- I mean... **>>** Another expression I typically wouldn't use. I would say ***What I want to say is...***.
- cat fish **>>** A ***cat fish*** is the act of creating a fake online identity (persona) on social media or dating apps to deceive, manipulate, or defraud someone, often for romantic or financial gain. A famous case in Ireland is ***The GAA catfish***.
- What amazes me... >> I had never heard this expressiona before. It's used to express profound surprise, wonder, admiration, or disbelief regarding a specific topic, behavior, or situation. 
- They agreed each other...
- Absent-minded >> forgetfull or easily distracted
- She has her head in the clouds.
- Speak up >> to talk louder so you can be heard, or to express your opinions and concerns openly and freely, often in defense of someone or something.
- I can't be arsed >> It is synonymous with "I can't be bothered" and implies having absolutely no energy or desire to perform a task.

### Homework

- Listen GAA Cat Fish on Spotfy

- Answer the question above:

1. Try to be **open-minded** about Trudi's new boyfriend. Don't **make up your mind** about him before you've met him.
   
    Ok, I promise I'll try to be open-minded with him.

2. Although it was an easy question, suddenly **my mind went blank**, and I was unable to answer.

    You shoud try doing some memory exercises!

3. Many people are afraid to **speak their minds** because of what others may think.

    Especially nowadays, because everithing has become a battlefield on the internet.

4. Is **something on your mind**? Can I do anything to help?

    No, everything is ok, **don't mind me**.

5. **I don't mind** if you're late as long as you phone.

    **Don't worry your mind**! I promisse I'll call before I left the party!

6. A: I'm sorry, I dropped a glass on the flor.
   
   B: **Never mind**. I'll get a pan and brush.

    **Don't stress your mind** about it. I'll get a pan and brush and we'll solve it.

7. **I've changed my mind** - I'll take it after all.
    
    Good for you, it's always good when we decide to try new experiences.

8. **Would you mind moving** your car? It's blocking the entrance.

    I'm sorry! I came to help my mon, she's just broke her leg at home. It was a domestic accident.

9. She is over 80 year old, so it's no surprising Anne's a bit **absent-minded**.

    As far as I know she is better than me. And I'm 55.

10. **Mind your head**. The ceiling's very low.

    Don't worry, I've alread found a way to be on safe. Everything is **on my mind**.

